README.md, before:

# terraform-aws-counter-strike-go

Terraform code for Counter Strike dedicated server on AWS

## HOW TO USE?

1. Create a Game Server Login Token.\
Open https://steamcommunity.com/dev/managegameservers in your browser and login with your steam account.\
Create a new Login Token with the APP ID of `730` (Counter String GO Game) and add a Memo so you can remember
where you are using this game token.

![steam token](steam_token.png "Token")

Save the token, you'll need it later to setup the instance.

2. Create an user on AWS and configure these environment variables accordingly:
```
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
```

3. `terraform init`
4. `terraform plan --var-file=custom_vars.tfvars`
4. Configure the token in [custom_vars.tfvars](./custo_vars.tfvars) file, `token` key.
5. `terraform apply --var-file=custom_vars.tfvars`
   1. If you want to pass or change any other variable in `vars.tf` use `--var "KEY=VALUE"`. See [vars.tf](./vars.tf) for the `KEY`. This will overrwide the `KEY` in [custom_vars.tfvars](./custo_vars.tfvars) file.

## How To SSH Into The Server?
Terraform will create the `id_rsa` and `id_rsa.pub` ssh keys to be used to access the instance.

The instance will be created with a public IP assocciated and will output it in the end. To access the instance
you should execute `ssh ubuntu@PUBLIC_IP -i id_rsa` changing *PUBLIC_IP* accordingly from the output.\

if you lost the output from terraform you can run `terraform output` and you'll find all information you need.

## How To Connect To The Server From CSGO?
Open your terminal and type `connect PUBLIC_IP` changing *PUBLIC_IP* accordingly.

## Change Game Mode
**Reference**: https://docs.linuxgsm.com/game-servers/counter-strike-global-offensive
| Game Modes | Game Type | Game Mode | Map Group |
|------------|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|
| Arms Race  | 1 | 0 | mg_armsrace|
| Classic Casual | 0 | 0 | mg_casualsigma, mg_casualdelta |
| Classic Competitive | 0 | 1 | mg_active, mg_reserves, mg_hostage, mg_de_dust2 |
| Custom | 3 | 0 ||
| Deathmatch | 1 | 2 | mg_deathmatch |
| Demolition | 1 | 1 | mg_demolition |
| Wingman | 0 | 2 ||
| Danger Zone | 6 | 0 | mg_dz_blacksite (map: dz_blacksite), mg_dz_sirocco (map: dz_irocco)|

if you want to change the game type you can change them accordingly in [custom_vars.tfvars](./custom_vars.tfvars)

## INPUT
| Variable | Description | Default | Mandatory |
|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|
| token | Steam Token | - | yes |
| region | AWS Region | `"eu-west-2"` | yes |
| security_group_name | Security Group Name Prefix | `"main"` | yes |
| instance_type | AWS Instance Type | `"m5.large"` | yes |
| password | CSGO Server Password (RCON and Private) | - | no |
| tags | CSGO Server Tags For Information | - | no |
| logging | CSGO Server Logging | `"off"` | no |
| game_type | CSGO Game Type | `0` | yes |
| game_mode | CSGO Server Game Mode | `1` | yes |
| map_group | CSGO Server Map Group | `"mg_active, mg_reserves, mg_hostage, mg_de_dust2"` | yes |
| default_map | CSGO Server Initial Map | `"de_mirage"` | yes |
| max_players | CSGO Server Max Players | `"10"` | yes |

## OUTPUT
| Variable | Description |
|:-:|:-:|
| instance_public_ip | AWS Instance Public IP for RCON And Game Connection |
| password | CSGO Server Password (RCON and Private) |
| public_ssh_key | AWS Instance Public SSH Key |
| random_pet_name | CSGO Server Hostname Random String |


## Recommendations
To connect to the remote console use this cli [rcon-cli](https://github.com/itzg/rcon-cli).

## TODO
- Implement Telegram or Discord notifications, see [Alerts](https://docs.linuxgsm.com/alerts)
- Remove Bots from the server on startup
- Any other ideas are welcome

Commit message:

Update readme to clearly state game server won't be available for at least 30minutes. Increase the EBS storage to 40GB as CS:GO space requirements went up. Add terraform variable to change EBS space as necessary via custom_vars.tfvars.

README.md, after:

# terraform-aws-counter-strike-go

Terraform code for Counter Strike dedicated server on AWS

## HOW TO USE?

1. Create a Game Server Login Token.\
Open https://steamcommunity.com/dev/managegameservers in your browser and login with your steam account.\
Create a new Login Token with the APP ID of `730` (Counter String GO Game) and add a Memo so you can remember
where you are using this game token.

![steam token](steam_token.png "Token")

Save the token, you'll need it later to setup the instance.

2. Create an user on AWS and configure these environment variables accordingly:
```
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
```

3. `terraform init`
4. `terraform plan --var-file=custom_vars.tfvars`
4. Configure the token in [custom_vars.tfvars](./custo_vars.tfvars) file, `token` key.
5. `terraform apply --var-file=custom_vars.tfvars`
   1. If you want to pass or change any other variable in `vars.tf` use `--var "KEY=VALUE"`. See [vars.tf](./vars.tf) for the `KEY`. This will overrwide the `KEY` in [custom_vars.tfvars](./custo_vars.tfvars) file.

Server will start downloading CS:GO. It might take up to 30 minutes for you to be able to connect to the game server.

## How To SSH Into The Server?
Terraform will create the `id_rsa` and `id_rsa.pub` ssh keys to be used to access the instance.

The instance will be created with a public IP assocciated and will output it in the end. To access the instance
you should execute `ssh ubuntu@PUBLIC_IP -i id_rsa` changing *PUBLIC_IP* accordingly from the output.\

if you lost the output from terraform you can run `terraform output` and you'll find all information you need.

## How To Connect To The Server From CSGO?
Open your terminal and type `connect PUBLIC_IP` changing *PUBLIC_IP* accordingly.

## Change Game Mode
**Reference**: https://docs.linuxgsm.com/game-servers/counter-strike-global-offensive
| Game Modes | Game Type | Game Mode | Map Group |
|------------|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|
| Arms Race  | 1 | 0 | mg_armsrace|
| Classic Casual | 0 | 0 | mg_casualsigma, mg_casualdelta |
| Classic Competitive | 0 | 1 | mg_active, mg_reserves, mg_hostage, mg_de_dust2 |
| Custom | 3 | 0 ||
| Deathmatch | 1 | 2 | mg_deathmatch |
| Demolition | 1 | 1 | mg_demolition |
| Wingman | 0 | 2 ||
| Danger Zone | 6 | 0 | mg_dz_blacksite (map: dz_blacksite), mg_dz_sirocco (map: dz_irocco)|

if you want to change the game type you can change them accordingly in [custom_vars.tfvars](./custom_vars.tfvars)

## INPUT
| Variable | Description | Default | Mandatory |
|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|
| token | Steam Token | - | yes |
| region | AWS Region | `"eu-west-2"` | yes |
| security_group_name | Security Group Name Prefix | `"main"` | yes |
| ebs_disk_size | Size for attached AWS EBS disk | `"40"` | no |
| instance_type | AWS Instance Type | `"m5.large"` | yes |
| password | CSGO Server Password (RCON and Private) | - | no |
| tags | CSGO Server Tags For Information | - | no |
| logging | CSGO Server Logging | `"off"` | no |
| game_type | CSGO Game Type | `0` | yes |
| game_mode | CSGO Server Game Mode | `1` | yes |
| map_group | CSGO Server Map Group | `"mg_active, mg_reserves, mg_hostage, mg_de_dust2"` | yes |
| default_map | CSGO Server Initial Map | `"de_mirage"` | yes |
| max_players | CSGO Server Max Players | `"10"` | yes |

## OUTPUT
| Variable | Description |
|:-:|:-:|
| instance_public_ip | AWS Instance Public IP for RCON And Game Connection |
| password | CSGO Server Password (RCON and Private) |
| public_ssh_key | AWS Instance Public SSH Key |
| random_pet_name | CSGO Server Hostname Random String |


## Recommendations
To connect to the remote console use this cli [rcon-cli](https://github.com/itzg/rcon-cli).

## TODO
- Implement Telegram or Discord notifications, see [Alerts](https://docs.linuxgsm.com/alerts)
- Remove Bots from the server on startup
- Any other ideas are welcome
